In this video,
let's discuss a key concept with APIs - Versioning.
I’d think versioning is one of the toughest problems to handle as far as APIs are concerned.
There are so many choices and different people opt for different choices.
I don't think there's one good way to do that.
There are tradeoffs.
Irrespective of the way you're doing versioning.
Let's get started.
Why do you need versioning?
Let's create a simple bean.
I would want to call this person.
I need to create a class first.
I’ll call this person and I'll put it into a package called versioning.
Let's talk about all the things related to versioning in this package. Versioning, let's say this guy has a name.
So private string name.
The initial version of the API, when we designed it, we created the person with a name.
So I'm just making it easy by calling it person one. So person one in the version one of the APIs,
he had a name. We evolved and over a period of time we recognize the need for having a separate first name
and last name. We decided, in the version two, we would need to have a name.
So what I'd do is create a class called name and now we are having the first name and last name. Some of the
consumers want the first name and last name split out. However, the old consumers are still expecting the name
to be returned as a single string.
How do we solve this problem?
Now, for the same API you need to have two different versions. One just giving the combined name back the other one which
is returning the first name and last name separately.
The example I've chosen is very very primitive.
But when you go into the real world there are a lot of times you encounter these scenarios. You have
to now create two different versions of these service.
How do we create two versions of the same service. What are the different options that are present? Let's
discuss them in this video.
Let's get started with creating a few setters and getters and all that kind of stuff for all this stuff. So I’m generating
getters and setters.
Select all and I’ll also generate a constructor to make things easy. Generate constructor using fields and I’ll generate
a no-name constructor as well.
So, I’ll copy this.
And let's paste it in.
That's good.
So this one has a no argument constructor. There are
getters and setters as well.
Let's do the same thing quickly for the other ones as well.
So generate getters and setters. Select all, generate constructor using fields and I would generate a constructor
with no arguments as well.
Let’s format this.
And let's move on to the other one which is person V1.
Select all, quickly do that. And I’ll generate a constructor as well.
One with name and the other one, just copy this, and remove the name of out of it.
Ok! So what we have now is three simple classes,
Right? Person V one with a string name.
And we have a person V two with a name name.
That's the only difference between these two guys.
So let's quickly create couple of services. So a couple of methods. I’m going to create a class. I’ll just call
this versioning controller.
Or because it's versioning person I'll call this person person versioning controller. Let's do that.
Obviously this is a rest controller.
So let's put that in. Rest controller.
What we want is one method which is actually returning public person V one.
And let's not really make it complex.
I'll just say, new person V one and I can pass in the name. Let's call him Bob Charlie and the other
method actually is used for second version, person V two. I’ll call this person V two.
And for him we cannot create one.
So we need to create a name. So name
Bob Charlie. And now I'd want to be able to expose these services from both of this.
The simplest option of versioning services is by mapping different URIs to them, right?
So I can say get mapping and I can very easily map different URIs to this. So I can say get mapping and say
this is V one slash person and for the other, I can say V two slash person.
Now let's see what would happen if I call this services
No magic as such.
So V1 slash person.
Okay. It gives me the entire name as one.
And you have V2 slash person. Bob Charlie within name.
The V2 has separate first name and last name.
That's cool.
What we looked at until now is the basic way of doing versioning by actually mapping different URIs
In the next step,
We'll also look at a few more ways of doing versioning.
And we would discuss what are the pros and cons for those approaches. As I said earlier, versioning is a difficult
concept because while implementing versioning is easy making a choice of which method to use for doing
the versioning is not very easy. Until the next step, bye-bye.